SoftEther VPN Server, Client and Bridge are free software, and released as
open-source. You can redistribute them and/or modify them under the terms of
the GNU General Public License version 2 as published by the Free Software
Foundation.

Copyright (c) 2012-2014 Daiyuu Nobori.
Copyright (c) 2012-2014 SoftEther Project at University of Tsukuba, Japan.
Copyright (c) 2012-2014 SoftEther Corporation.
All Rights Reserved.
http://www.softether.org/

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 as published by the Free
Software Foundation.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License version 2
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.
Neither the name of SoftEther nor the names of its contributors may be used to
endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior
written permission.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

THIS SOFTWARE IS DEVELOPED IN JAPAN, AND DISTRIBUTED FROM JAPAN, UNDER
JAPANESE LAWS. YOU MUST AGREE IN ADVANCE TO USE, COPY, MODIFY, MERGE, PUBLISH,
DISTRIBUTE, SUBLICENSE, AND/OR SELL COPIES OF THIS SOFTWARE, THAT ANY
JURIDICAL DISPUTES WHICH ARE CONCERNED TO THIS SOFTWARE OR ITS CONTENTS,
AGAINST US (SOFTETHER PROJECT, SOFTETHER CORPORATION, DAIYUU NOBORI OR OTHER
SUPPLIERS), OR ANY JURIDICAL DISPUTES AGAINST US WHICH ARE CAUSED BY ANY KIND
OF USING, COPYING, MODIFYING, MERGING, PUBLISHING, DISTRIBUTING, SUBLICENSING,
AND/OR SELLING COPIES OF THIS SOFTWARE SHALL BE REGARDED AS BE CONSTRUED AND
CONTROLLED BY JAPANESE LAWS, AND YOU MUST FURTHER CONSENT TO EXCLUSIVE
JURISDICTION AND VENUE IN THE COURTS SITTING IN TOKYO, JAPAN. YOU MUST WAIVE
ALL DEFENSES OF LACK OF PERSONAL JURISDICTION AND FORUM NON CONVENIENS.
PROCESS MAY BE SERVED ON EITHER PARTY IN THE MANNER AUTHORIZED BY APPLICABLE
LAW OR COURT RULE.

USE ONLY IN JAPAN. DO NOT USE IT IN OTHER COUNTRIES. IMPORTING THIS SOFTWARE
INTO OTHER COUNTRIES IS AT YOUR OWN RISK. SOME COUNTRIES PROHIBIT ENCRYPTED
COMMUNICATIONS. USING THIS SOFTWARE IN OTHER COUNTRIES MIGHT BE RESTRICTED.

THE FOLLOWING GPLV2 CONDITIONS APPLY ON ALL SOFTETHER VPN PROGRAMS WHICH ARE
DEVELOPED BY SOFTETHER VPN PROJECT.

                    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 2, June 1991

 Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

                            Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to
share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public License is intended
to guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.  This General Public License applies to
most of the Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose
authors commit to using it.  (Some other Free Software Foundation software is
covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.)  You can apply it
to your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price.  Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you
can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to
deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These
restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute
copies of the software, or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or
for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have.  You
must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code.  And you
must show them these terms so they know their rights.

  We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2)
offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute
and/or modify the software.

  Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software.  If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced
by others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

  Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents.  We
wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free program will
individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the program proprietary.
To prevent this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for
everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

                    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a notice
placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this General Public License.  The "Program", below, refers to any such program
or work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or any
derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the
Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
translated into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is included
without limitation in
the term "modification".)  Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of running the Program
is not restricted, and the output from the Program is covered only if its
contents constitute a work based on the Program (independent of having been
made by running the Program). Whether that is true depends on what the Program
does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code
as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients of the
Program a copy of this License along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you
also meet all of these conditions:

    a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole
or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof, to be
licensed as a whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this
License.

    c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the most
ordinary way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under
these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License.
(Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but does not normally print
such an announcement, your work based on the Program is not required to print
an announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Program, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License,
and its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as
separate works.  But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole
which is a work based on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on
the terms of this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on
the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program with
the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

  3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it, under
Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and
2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

    a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

    b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party, for a charge no more than your cost of physically
performing source distribution, a complete machine-readable copy of the
corresponding source code, to be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and
2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

    c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to
distribute corresponding source code.  (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form with such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it.  For an executable work, complete source code means all
the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and
installation of the executable.  However, as a special exception, the source
code distributed need not include anything that is normally distributed (in
either source or binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and
so on) of the operating system on which the executable runs, unless that
component itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering access to
copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the
source code from the same place counts as distribution of the source code,
even though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the
object code.

  4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as
expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Program is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

  5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed
it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the
Program or its derivative works.  These actions are prohibited by law if you
do not accept this License.  Therefore, by modifying or distributing the
Program (or any work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of
this License to do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying,
distributing or modifying the Program or works based on it.

  6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original
licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and
conditions.  You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients'
exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing
compliance by third parties to this License.

  7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise)
that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from
the conditions of this License.  If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Program at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution
of the Program by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through
you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system, which is implemented by public license practices.  Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

  8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original
copyright holder who places the Program under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded.  In
such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body
of this License.

  9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of this License,
you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

  10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make
exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals of
preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and of
promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

                            NO WARRANTY

  11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE
PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE,
YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR
THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS),
EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

                     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

Note that the above copyright notices and use conditions do not apply on the
software components listed in below which are included in this Software. When
you use or distribute Software with including these libraries, you have to
follow the conditions of these libraries.

These library's copyright notices and conditions are following;

-------------------

BitVisor(R) VPN Client Module (IPsec Driver):
Copyright (c) 2007, 2008 University of Tsukuba.
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 National Institute of Information and Communications
Technology.
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of the University of Tsukuba nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

-------------------

Microsoft(R) C Runtime Library:
(c) 2007 Microsoft Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

-------------------

RSA Security Inc. PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface (Cryptoki):

License to copy and use this software is granted provided that it is
identified as "RSA Security Inc. PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface
(Cryptoki)" in all material mentioning or referencing this software.

License is also granted to make and use derivative works provided that such
works are identified as "derived from the RSA Security Inc. PKCS #11
Cryptographic Token Interface (Cryptoki)" in all material mentioning or
referencing the derived work.

RSA Security Inc. makes no representations concerning either the
merchantability of this software or the suitability of this software for any
particular purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty
of any kind.

-------------------

WinPcap:
Copyright (c) 2001 - 2003 NetGroup, Politecnico di Torino (Italy)
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of the Politecnico di Torino nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY
OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

-------------------

libedit:
Copyright (c) 1992, 1993 The Regents of the University of California.  All
rights reserved.

This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by Christos Zoulas
of Cornell University.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may be
used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

-------------------

libiconv:

          GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
               Version 2, June 1991

 Copyright (C) 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the library GPL. It is
 numbered 2 because it goes with version 2 of the ordinary GPL.]

                Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to
share and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended
to guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.

  This license, the Library General Public License, applies to some specially
designated Free Software Foundation software, and to any other libraries whose
authors decide to use it. You can use it for your libraries, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it if you
want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it in new free
programs; and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to
deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These
restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute
copies of the library, or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for
a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must
make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source
code. If you link a program with the library, you must provide complete object
files to the recipients so that they can relink them with the library, after
making changes to the library and recompiling it. And you must show them these
terms so they know their rights.

  Our method of protecting your rights has two steps: (1) copyright the
library, and (2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to
copy, distribute and/or modify the library.

  Also, for each distributor's protection, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free library. If the
library is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original version, so that any problems
introduced by others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

  Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We
wish to avoid the danger that companies distributing free software will
individually obtain patent licenses, thus in effect transforming the program
into proprietary software. To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

  Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU
General Public License, which was designed for utility programs. This license,
the GNU Library General Public License, applies to certain designated
libraries. This license is quite different from the ordinary one; be sure to
read it in full, and don't assume that anything in it is the same as in the
ordinary license.

  The reason we have a separate public license for some libraries is that they
blur the distinction we usually make between modifying or adding to a program
and simply using it. Linking a program with a library, without changing the
library, is in some sense simply using the library, and is analogous to
running a utility program or application program. However, in a textual and
legal sense, the linked executable is a combined work, a derivative of the
original library, and the ordinary General Public License treats it as such.

  Because of this blurred distinction, using the ordinary General Public
License for libraries did not effectively promote software sharing, because
most developers did not use the libraries. We concluded that weaker conditions
might promote sharing better.

  However, unrestricted linking of non-free programs would deprive the users
of those programs of all benefit from the free status of the libraries
themselves. This Library General Public License is intended to
permit developers of non-free programs to use free libraries, while preserving
your freedom as a user of such programs to change the free libraries that are
incorporated in them. (We have not seen how to achieve this as regards changes
in header files, but we have achieved it as regards changes in the actual
functions of the Library.) The hope is that this will lead to faster
development of free libraries.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the
library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived
from the library, while the latter only works together with the library.

  Note that it is possible for a library to be covered by the ordinary General
Public License rather than by this special one.

          GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License Agreement applies to any software library which contains a
notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party saying it may
be distributed under the terms of this Library
General Public License (also called "this License"). Each licensee is
addressed as "you".

  A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so
as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of
those functions and data) to form executables.

  The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has
been distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either
the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work
containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with
modifications and/or translated straightforwardly into another language.
(Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in the term
"modification".)

  "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source
code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition
files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the
library.

  Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program
using the Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered
only if its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of
the use of the Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends
on what the Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously
and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License
along with the Library.

  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you
may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you
also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

    b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all
third parties under the terms of this License.

    d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table
of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other
than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a
good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply
such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever
part of its purpose remains meaningful.

    (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a
purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the application.
Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or
table used by this function must be optional: if the application does not
supply it, the square root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License,
and its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as
separate works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole
which is a work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on
the terms of this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on
the Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with
the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

  3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public
License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this,
you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer
to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this
License. (If a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public
License has appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.)
Do not make any other change in these notices.

  Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy,
so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies
and derivative works made from that copy.

  This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library
into a program that is not a library.

  4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of
it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete
corresponding machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under
the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software
interchange.

  If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from
the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even
though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the
object code.

  5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but
is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is
called a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a
derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this
License.

  However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an
executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions
of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is
therefore covered by this License.
Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.

  When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is
part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of
the Library even though the source code is not.
Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be linked
without the Library, or if the work is itself a library. The threshold for
this to be true is not precisely defined by law.

  If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure
layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines
or less in length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted,
regardless of whether it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing
this object code plus portions of the Library will still fall under Section
6.)

  Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute
the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables
containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked
directly with the Library itself.

  6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also compile or link a
"work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing
portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice,
provided that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own
use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.

  You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library
is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License.
You must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays
copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among
them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.
Also, you must do one of these things:

    a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work
(which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above) ; and, if the work is
an executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable
"work that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the
user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable
containing the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes
the contents of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able
to recompile the application to use the modified definitions.)

    b) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three
years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above,
for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.

    c) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified
materials from the same place.

    d) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or
that you have already sent this user a copy.

  For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library"
must include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the
executable from it. However, as a special exception, the source code
distributed need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either
source or binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on)
of the operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

  It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of
other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating
system. Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library
together in an executable that you distribute.

  7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library
side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not
covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that
the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other
library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two
things:

    a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on
the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be
distributed under the terms of the Sections above.

    b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part
of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the
accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

  8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the
Library except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise
to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and
will automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties
who have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have
their licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

  9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed
it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the
Library or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do
not accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library
(or any work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this
License to do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing
or modifying the Library or works based on it.

  10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original
licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these
terms and conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the
recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for
enforcing compliance by third parties to this License.

  11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise)
that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from
the conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution
of the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through
you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

  12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original
copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In
such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body
of this License.

  13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the Library General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation. If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may
choose any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

  14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make
exceptions for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of
preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and of
promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

                NO WARRANTY

  15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE
LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
PERFORMANCE OF THE LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE,
YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR
THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE),
EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

             END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

-------------------

ncurses:
Copyright (c) 1998-2005,2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, distribute with
modifications, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit
persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR
IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name(s) of the above copyright holders
shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization.

-------------------

OpenSSL:
OpenSSL License
Copyright (c) 1998-2011 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must
display the following acknowledgment: "This product includes software
developed by the OpenSSL Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit.
(http://www.openssl.org/)"

4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
endorse or promote products derived from this software without prior written
permission. For written permission, please contact openssl-core@openssl.org.

5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL" nor may
"OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written permission of the
OpenSSL Project.

6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
acknowledgment: "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL
Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO
EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY
OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young
(eay@cryptsoft.com).  This product includes software written by Tim Hudson
(tjh@cryptsoft.com).

Original SSLeay License
Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com) All rights reserved.

This package is an SSL implementation written by Eric Young
(eay@cryptsoft.com). The implementation was written so as to conform with
Netscapes SSL.

This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as the
following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions apply to all
code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA, lhash, DES, etc., code;
not just the SSL code.  The SSL documentation included with this distribution
is covered by the same copyright terms except that the holder is Tim Hudson
(tjh@cryptsoft.com).

Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in the code
are not to be removed. If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should
be given attribution as the author of the parts of the library used. This can
be in the form of a textual message at program startup or in documentation
(online or textual) provided with the package.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright notice, this list
of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must
display the following acknowledgement: "This product includes cryptographic
software written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)" The word 'cryptographic'
can be left out if the rouines from the library being used are not
cryptographic related :-).
4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from the
apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement: "This
product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO
EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

The licence and distribution terms for any publically available version or
derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot simply be
copied and put under another distribution licence [including the GNU Public
Licence.]

-------------------

zlib:
Acknowledgments:
  The deflate format used by zlib was defined by Phil Katz. The deflate and
zlib specifications were written by L. Peter Deutsch. Thanks to all the people
who reported problems and suggested various improvements in zlib; they are too
numerous to cite here.

Copyright notice:
 (C) 1995-2004 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler

  This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty.
In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the
use of this software.

  Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely,
subject to the following restrictions:

  1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a
product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated
but is not required.
  2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
misrepresented as being the original software.
  3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

  Jean-loup Gailly        Mark Adler
  jloup@gzip.org          madler@alumni.caltech.edu

If you use the zlib library in a product, we would appreciate *not* receiving
lengthy legal documents to sign. The sources are provided for free but without
warranty of any kind.  The library has been entirely written by Jean-loup
Gailly and Mark Adler; it does not include third-party code.

If you redistribute modified sources, we would appreciate that you include in
the file ChangeLog history information documenting your changes. Please read
the FAQ for more information on the distribution of modified source versions.

-------------------

Intel AESNI Sample Library:

Copyright (c) 2010, Intel Corporation
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its contributors may
be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Issue Date: Aug 6, 2010

-------------------

NOTES

SoftEther provides source codes of some GPL/LGPL/other libraries listed above
on its web server. Anyone can download, use and re-distribute them under
individual licenses which are contained on each archive file, available from
the following URL:
http://uploader.softether.co.jp/src/



BitVisor(R) VPN Client Module (IPsec Driver):
Copyright (c) 2007, 2008 University of Tsukuba.
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 National Institute of Information and Communications
Technology.
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of the University of Tsukuba nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

-------------------

Microsoft(R) C Runtime Library:
(c) 2007 Microsoft Corporation. All Rights Reserved.

-------------------

RSA Security Inc. PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface (Cryptoki):

License to copy and use this software is granted provided that it is
identified as "RSA Security Inc. PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface
(Cryptoki)" in all material mentioning or referencing this software.

License is also granted to make and use derivative works provided that such
works are identified as "derived from the RSA Security Inc. PKCS #11
Cryptographic Token Interface (Cryptoki)" in all material mentioning or
referencing the derived work.

RSA Security Inc. makes no representations concerning either the
merchantability of this software or the suitability of this software for any
particular purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty
of any kind.

-------------------

WinPcap:
Copyright (c) 2001 - 2003 NetGroup, Politecnico di Torino (Italy)
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of the Politecnico di Torino nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY
OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

-------------------

libedit:
Copyright (c) 1992, 1993 The Regents of the University of California.  All
rights reserved.

This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by Christos Zoulas
of Cornell University.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors may be
used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

-------------------

libiconv:

          GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
               Version 2, June 1991

 Copyright (C) 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the library GPL. It is
 numbered 2 because it goes with version 2 of the ordinary GPL.]

                Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to
share and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended
to guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.

  This license, the Library General Public License, applies to some specially
designated Free Software Foundation software, and to any other libraries whose
authors decide to use it. You can use it for your libraries, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it if you
want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it in new free
programs; and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to
deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These
restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute
copies of the library, or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for
a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must
make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source
code. If you link a program with the library, you must provide complete object
files to the recipients so that they can relink them with the library, after
making changes to the library and recompiling it. And you must show them these
terms so they know their rights.

  Our method of protecting your rights has two steps: (1) copyright the
library, and (2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to
copy, distribute and/or modify the library.

  Also, for each distributor's protection, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free library. If the
library is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original version, so that any problems
introduced by others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

  Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We
wish to avoid the danger that companies distributing free software will
individually obtain patent licenses, thus in effect transforming the program
into proprietary software. To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

  Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU
General Public License, which was designed for utility programs. This license,
the GNU Library General Public License, applies to certain designated
libraries. This license is quite different from the ordinary one; be sure to
read it in full, and don't assume that anything in it is the same as in the
ordinary license.

  The reason we have a separate public license for some libraries is that they
blur the distinction we usually make between modifying or adding to a program
and simply using it. Linking a program with a library, without changing the
library, is in some sense simply using the library, and is analogous to
running a utility program or application program. However, in a textual and
legal sense, the linked executable is a combined work, a derivative of the
original library, and the ordinary General Public License treats it as such.

  Because of this blurred distinction, using the ordinary General Public
License for libraries did not effectively promote software sharing, because
most developers did not use the libraries. We concluded that weaker conditions
might promote sharing better.

  However, unrestricted linking of non-free programs would deprive the users
of those programs of all benefit from the free status of the libraries
themselves. This Library General Public License is intended to
permit developers of non-free programs to use free libraries, while preserving
your freedom as a user of such programs to change the free libraries that are
incorporated in them. (We have not seen how to achieve this as regards changes
in header files, but we have achieved it as regards changes in the actual
functions of the Library.) The hope is that this will lead to faster
development of free libraries.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the
library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived
from the library, while the latter only works together with the library.

  Note that it is possible for a library to be covered by the ordinary General
Public License rather than by this special one.

          GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License Agreement applies to any software library which contains a
notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party saying it may
be distributed under the terms of this Library
General Public License (also called "this License"). Each licensee is
addressed as "you".

  A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so
as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of
those functions and data) to form executables.

  The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has
been distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either
the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work
containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with
modifications and/or translated straightforwardly into another language.
(Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in the term
"modification".)

  "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source
code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition
files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the
library.

  Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program
using the Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered
only if its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of
the use of the Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends
on what the Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously
and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License
along with the Library.

  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you
may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you
also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

    b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all
third parties under the terms of this License.

    d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table
of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other
than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a
good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply
such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever
part of its purpose remains meaningful.

    (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a
purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the application.
Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or
table used by this function must be optional: if the application does not
supply it, the square root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License,
and its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as
separate works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole
which is a work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on
the terms of this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on
the Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with
the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

  3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public
License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this,
you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer
to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this
License. (If a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public
License has appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.)
Do not make any other change in these notices.

  Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy,
so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies
and derivative works made from that copy.

  This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library
into a program that is not a library.

  4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of
it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete
corresponding machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under
the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software
interchange.

  If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from
the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even
though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the
object code.

  5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but
is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is
called a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a
derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this
License.

  However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an
executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions
of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is
therefore covered by this License.
Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.

  When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is
part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of
the Library even though the source code is not.
Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be linked
without the Library, or if the work is itself a library. The threshold for
this to be true is not precisely defined by law.

  If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure
layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines
or less in length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted,
regardless of whether it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing
this object code plus portions of the Library will still fall under Section
6.)

  Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute
the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables
containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked
directly with the Library itself.

  6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also compile or link a
"work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing
portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice,
provided that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own
use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.

  You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library
is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License.
You must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays
copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among
them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.
Also, you must do one of these things:

    a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work
(which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above) ; and, if the work is
an executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable
"work that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the
user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable
containing the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes
the contents of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able
to recompile the application to use the modified definitions.)

    b) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three
years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above,
for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.

    c) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified
materials from the same place.

    d) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or
that you have already sent this user a copy.

  For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library"
must include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the
executable from it. However, as a special exception, the source code
distributed need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either
source or binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on)
of the operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

  It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of
other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating
system. Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library
together in an executable that you distribute.

  7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library
side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not
covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that
the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other
library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two
things:

    a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on
the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be
distributed under the terms of the Sections above.

    b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part
of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the
accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

  8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the
Library except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise
to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and
will automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties
who have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have
their licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

  9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed
it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the
Library or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do
not accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library
(or any work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this
License to do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing
or modifying the Library or works based on it.

  10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original
licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these
terms and conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the
recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for
enforcing compliance by third parties to this License.

  11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise)
that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from
the conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution
of the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through
you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

  12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original
copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In
such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body
of this License.

  13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the Library General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation. If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may
choose any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

  14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make
exceptions for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of
preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and of
promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

                NO WARRANTY

  15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE
LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
PERFORMANCE OF THE LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE,
YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR
THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE),
EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

             END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

-------------------

ncurses:
Copyright (c) 1998-2005,2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, distribute with
modifications, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit
persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
ABOVE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR
IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name(s) of the above copyright holders
shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization.

-------------------

OpenSSL:
OpenSSL License
Copyright (c) 1998-2011 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must
display the following acknowledgment: "This product includes software
developed by the OpenSSL Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit.
(http://www.openssl.org/)"

4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
endorse or promote products derived from this software without prior written
permission. For written permission, please contact openssl-core@openssl.org.

5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL" nor may
"OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written permission of the
OpenSSL Project.

6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
acknowledgment: "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL
Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO
EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY
OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young
(eay@cryptsoft.com).  This product includes software written by Tim Hudson
(tjh@cryptsoft.com).

Original SSLeay License
Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com) All rights reserved.

This package is an SSL implementation written by Eric Young
(eay@cryptsoft.com). The implementation was written so as to conform with
Netscapes SSL.

This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as the
following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions apply to all
code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA, lhash, DES, etc., code;
not just the SSL code.  The SSL documentation included with this distribution
is covered by the same copyright terms except that the holder is Tim Hudson
(tjh@cryptsoft.com).

Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in the code
are not to be removed. If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should
be given attribution as the author of the parts of the library used. This can
be in the form of a textual message at program startup or in documentation
(online or textual) provided with the package.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright notice, this list
of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must
display the following acknowledgement: "This product includes cryptographic
software written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)" The word 'cryptographic'
can be left out if the rouines from the library being used are not
cryptographic related :-).
4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from the
apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement: "This
product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO
EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

The licence and distribution terms for any publically available version or
derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot simply be
copied and put under another distribution licence [including the GNU Public
Licence.]

-------------------

zlib:
Acknowledgments:
  The deflate format used by zlib was defined by Phil Katz. The deflate and
zlib specifications were written by L. Peter Deutsch. Thanks to all the people
who reported problems and suggested various improvements in zlib; they are too
numerous to cite here.

Copyright notice:
 (C) 1995-2004 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler

  This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty.
In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the
use of this software.

  Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely,
subject to the following restrictions:

  1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a
product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated
but is not required.
  2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
misrepresented as being the original software.
  3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

  Jean-loup Gailly        Mark Adler
  jloup@gzip.org          madler@alumni.caltech.edu

If you use the zlib library in a product, we would appreciate *not* receiving
lengthy legal documents to sign. The sources are provided for free but without
warranty of any kind.  The library has been entirely written by Jean-loup
Gailly and Mark Adler; it does not include third-party code.

If you redistribute modified sources, we would appreciate that you include in
the file ChangeLog history information documenting your changes. Please read
the FAQ for more information on the distribution of modified source versions.

-------------------

Intel AESNI Sample Library:

Copyright (c) 2010, Intel Corporation
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its contributors may
be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Issue Date: Aug 6, 2010

-------------------

NOTES WRITTEN BY SOFTETHER CORPORATION

Note for users of non-Windows version of PacketiX VPN: The enumerated bundle
of License Agreements above are copies of original License Agreements of each
library programs which PacketiX VPN uses. PacketiX VPN is not a delivered work
from these libraries. PacketiX VPN is a separated work from the libraries, but
it may call functions of the libraries (whether or not PacketiX VPN calls such
functions are depended on the user's intention to link them or not on user's
side computer). While some libraries indicate GPL or LGPL as a condition to
re-distribute, PacketiX VPN is not license under GPL nor LGPL. Therefore, we
took special care not to make PacketiX VPN become delivered works of any GPL
or LGPL libraries. In order to achieve that, both PacketiX VPN and GPL/LGPL
libraries are distributed with isolated forms (means that any program files of
PacketiX VPN are not bound nor linked to any GPL/LGPL libraries). If a user of
PacketiX VPN wants to link GPL/LGPL libraries by their own decisions,
operations and responsibilities, he may do that on his computer. However, if a
delivered work under copyright law is created as a result of such an
operation, such a delivered work must not re-distributed to other people,
because it may violate GPL/LGPL libraries' conditions.

Note for users of Windows version of PacketiX VPN: For technical reason, the
above texts are exactly same as a file which is also contained on the
non-Windows version of PacketiX VPN. Actually, the Windows version of PacketiX
VPN has no relations to any GPL/LGPL libraries enumerated above.

SoftEther Corporation provides source codes of some GPL/LGPL/other libraries
listed above on its web server. Anyone can download, use and re-distribute
them under individual licenses which are contained on each archive file,
available from the following URL:
http://uploader.softether.co.jp/src/



THE IMPORTANT NOTICES ABOUT SOFTETHER VPN

FUNCTIONS OF VPN COMMUNICATIONS EMBEDDED ON THIS SOFTWARE ARE VERY POWERFUL
THAN EVER. THIS STRONG VPN ABILITY WILL BRING YOU HUGE BENEFITS. HOWEVER, IF
YOU MISUSE THIS SOFTWARE, IT MIGHT DAMAGES YOURSELF. IN ORDER TO AVOID SUCH
RISKS, THIS DOCUMENT ACCOUNTS IMPORTANT NOTICES FOR CUSTOMERS WHO ARE WILLING
TO USE THIS SOFTWARE. THE FOLLOWING INSTRUCTIONS ARE VERY IMPORTANT. READ AND
UNDERSTAND IT CAREFULLY. ADDITIONALLY, IF YOU ARE PLANNING TO USE THE DYNAMIC
DNS, THE NAT TRAVERSAL OR THE VPN AZURE FUNCTIONS, READ THE SECTION 3.5
CAREFULLY. THESE FUNCTIONS ARE FREE SERVICES PROVIDED VIA THE INTERNET, ARE
NOT GUARANTEED, AND ARE NOT INTENDED TO BE USED FOR BUSINESS OR COMMERCIAL
USE. DO NOT USE THESE SERVICES FOR YOUR BUSINESS OR COMMERCIAL USE.


1. VPN Communication Protocols
1.1. SoftEther VPN Protocol
SoftEther VPN can perform VPN communication. Unlike traditional VPN protocols,
SoftEther VPN has an implementation of the newly-designed "SoftEther VPN
Protocol (SE-VPN Protocol)" . SE-VPN protocol encapsulates any Ethernet
packets into a HTTPS (HTTP over SSL) connection. Therefore SE-VPN protocol can
communicate beyond firewalls even if the firewall is configured to block
traditional VPN packets by network administrator. SE-VPN protocol is designed
and implemented to comply TLS 1.0 (RFC 5246) and HTTPS (RFC 2818). However, it
sometimes have different behavior to RFCs. If you are a network administrator
and want to block SE-VPN protocols on the firewall, you can adopt a
"white-list" policy on the firewall to filter any TCP or UDP packets on the
border except explicitly allowed packets towards specific web sites and
servers.

1.2. NAT Traversal Function
Generally, if you use traditional VPN systems you have to request a network
administrator to make the NAT or firewall to "open" or "relay" specific TCP or
UDP ports. However, there are demands somehow to eliminate such working costs
on network administrators. In order to satisfy such demands, SoftEther VPN has
the newly-implemented "NAT Traversal" function. NAT Traversal is enabled by
default. A SoftEther VPN Server running on the computer behind NAT or firewall
can accept VPN connections from the Internet, without any special
configurations on firewalls or NATs. If you want to disable the NAT Traversal
function, modify the "DisableNatTraversal" to "true" on the configuration file
of SoftEther VPN Server. In order to disable it on the client-side, append
"/tcp" suffix on the destination hostname.

1.3. Dynamic DNS Function
Traditional legacy VPN system requires a static global IP address on the VPN
server. In consideration of shortage of global IP addresses, SoftEther
Corporation implements the "Dynamic DNS Function" on SoftEther VPN Server.
Dynamic DNS is enabled by default. Dynamic DNS function notify the current
global IP address of the PC to the Dynamic DNS Servers which are operated by
SoftEther Corporation. A globally-unique hostname (FQDN) such as
"abc.softether.net" ( "abc" varies as unique per a user) will be assigned on
the VPN Server. If you tell this unique hostname to a VPN user, the user can
specify it as the destination VPN Sever hostname on the VPN Client and will be
able to connect the VPN Server. No IP addresses are required to know
beforehand. If the IP address of the VPN Server varies, the registered IP
address related to the hostname of Dynamic DNS service will be changed
automatically. By this mechanism, no longer need a static global IP address
which costs monthly to ISPs. You can use consumer-level inexpensive Internet
connection with dynamic IP address in order to operate an enterprise-level VPN
system. If you want to disable Dynamic DNS, specify "true" on the "Disabled"
items of the "DDnsClient" directive on the SoftEther VPN Server configuration
file. * Note for residents in People's Republic of China: If your VPN Server
is running on the People's Republic of China, the DNS suffix will be replaced
to "sedns.cn" domain. The "sedns.cn" domain is the service possessed and
operated by "Beijing Daiyuu SoftEther Technology Co., Ltd" which is a
Chinese-local enterprise.

1.4. VPN over ICMP / VPN over DNS functions
If you want to make a VPN connection between SoftEther VPN Client / Bridge and
SoftEther VPN Server, but if TCP and UDP packets are prohibited by the
firewall, then you can encapsulates payloads into "ICMP" (as known as Ping) or
"DNS" packets. This function can realize a VPN connection by using ICMP or DNS
even if the firewall or router blocks every TCP or UDP connections. VPN over
ICMP / VPN over DNS functions are designed to comply standard ICMP and DNS
specifications as possible, however it sometimes has a behavior not to fully
comply them. Therefore, few poor-quality routers may be caused a
memory-overflow or something troubles when a lot of ICMP or DNS packets are
passed, and such routers sometimes freezes or reboots. It might affects other
users on the same network. To avoid such risks, append the suffix "/tcp" on
the destination hostname which is specified on the VPN-client side to disable
VPN over ICMP / DNS functions.

1.5. VPN Azure Cloud Service
If your SoftEther VPN Server is placed behind the NAT or firwall, and by some
reason you cannot use NAT Traversal function, Dynamic DNS function or VPN over
ICMP/DNS function, you can use VPN Azure Clouse Service. SoftEther Corporation
operates VPN Azure Cloud on Internet. After the VPN Server makes a connection
to the VPN Azure Cloud, the hostname "abc.vpnazure.net" ( "abc" is a unique
hostname) can be specified to connect to the VPN Server via the VPN Azure
Cloud. Practically, such a hostname is pointing a global IP address of one of
cloud servers which are operated by SoftEther Corporation. If A VPN Client
connects to such a VPN Azure host, then the VPN Azure host will relay all
traffics between the VPN Client and the VPN Server. VPN Azure is disabled by
default. You can activate it easily by using VPN Server Configuration Tool.

1.6. UDP Acceleration
SoftEther VPN has the UDP Acceleration Function. If a VPN consists of two
sites detects that UDP channel can be established, UDP will be automatically
used. By this function, throughput of UDP increases. If direct UDP channel can
be established, direct UDP packets will be used. However, if there is
something obstacles such as firewalls or NATs, the "UDP Hole Punching"
technology will be used, instead. The "UDP Hole Punching" uses the cloud
servers which SoftEther Corporation operates on Internet. UDP Acceleration can
be disabled anytime by setting up so on the VPN-client side.


2. VPN Software
2.1. SoftEther VPN Client
If you use SoftEther VPN Client on Windows, the Virtual Network Adapter device
driver will be installed on Windows. The Virtual Network Adapter is
implemented as a kernel-mode driver for Windows. The driver is
digitally-signed by a certificate issued by VeriSign, Inc. and also sub-signed
by Symantec Corporation. A message to ask you want to sure install the driver
might be popped up on the screen. SoftEther VPN Client may response the
message if possible. SoftEther VPN Client also optimizes the configuration of
MMCSS (Multimedia Class Scheduler Service) on Windows. You can undo the
optimizations of MMCSS afterwards.

2.2. SoftEther VPN Server / Bridge
If you use SoftEther VPN Server / Bridge on Windows with "Local Bridge"
functions, you have to install the low-level Ethernet packet processing driver
on the computer. The driver is digitally-signed by a certificate issued by
VeriSign, Inc. and also sub-signed by Symantec Corporation. SoftEther VPN
Server / Bridge may disable the TCP/IP offloading features on the physical
network adapter for Local Bridge function. In Windows Vista / 2008 or greater
version, VPN Server may inject a packet-filter driver which complies Windows
Filter Platform (WPF) specification into the kernel in order to provide IPsec
function. The packet-filter driver will be loaded available only if IPsec
function is enabled. Once you enables IPsec function of SoftEther VPN Server,
the built-in IPsec function of Windows will be disabled. After you disabled
IPsec function of SoftEther VPN Server, then the built-in IPsec function of
Windows will revive. In order to provide the Local Bridge function, SoftEther
VPN Server / Bridge disables the TCP/IP offloading function on the operating
system.

2.3. User-mode Installation
You can install SoftEther VPN Server and SoftEther VPN Bridge as "User-mode"
on Windows. In other words, even if you don't have Windows system
administrator's privileges, you can install SoftEther VPN as a normal user.
User-mode install will disable a few functions, however other most functions
work well. Therefore, for example, an employee can install SoftEther VPN
Server on the computer in the office network, and he will be able to connect
to the server from his home. In order to realize such a system by user-self,
no system administrative privileges are required in the view-point of
technical. However, breaking rules of the company to install software on the
computer without authority might be regarded as an unfavorable behavior. If
you are an employee and belong to the company, and the company-policy
prohibits installing software or making communications towards Internet
without permission, you have to obtain a permission from the network
administrator or the executive officer of your company in advance to install
SoftEther VPN. If you install VPN Server / Bridge as User-mode, an icon will
be appeared on the Windows task-tray. If you feel that the icon disturbs you,
you can hide it by your operation. However, you must not exploit this hiding
function to install VPN Server on other person's computer as a spyware. Such
behavior might be an offence against the criminal law.

2.4. Keep Alive Function
SoftEther VPN Server and SoftEther VPN Bridge has Keep Alive Function by
default. The purpose of this function is to sustain the Internet line active.
The function transmits UDP packets with a random-byte-array-payload
periodically. This function is useful to avoid automatic disconnection on
mobile or dial-up connections. You can disable Keep Alive Function anytime.

2.5. Uninstallation
The uninstallation process of SoftEther VPN software will delete all program
files. However, non-program files (such as files and data which are generated
by running of programs) ) will not be deleted. For technical reason, the exe
and resource files of uninstaller might remain. Such remaining files never
affects to use the computer, however you can delete it manually. Kernel-mode
drivers might not be deleted, however such drivers will not be loaded after
the next boot of Windows. You can use "sc" command of Windows to delete
kernel-mode drivers manually.

2.6. Security
You should set the administrator's password on SoftEther VPN Server / Bridge
after installation. If you neglect to do it, another person can access to
SoftEther VPN Server / Bridge and can set the password without your
permission. This caution might be also applied on SoftEther VPN Client for
Linux.

2.7. Automatic Update Notification
SoftEther VPN software for Windows has an automatic update notification
function. It accesses to the SoftEther Update server periodically to check
whether or not the latest version of software is released. If the latest
version is released, the notification message will be popped up on the screen.
In order to achieve this purpose, the version, language settings, the unique
identifier, the IP address of your computer and the hostname of VPN Server
which is connected to will be sent to the SoftEther Update server. No personal
information will be sent. Automatic Update Notification is enabled by default,
however you can disable it on the configuration screen. The setting whether
turned on or turned off will be saved individually corresponding to each
destination VPN server, by VPN Server Manager.

2.8. Virtual NAT Function
A Virtual Hub on SoftEther VPN Server / Bridge has "Virtual NAT Function" .
Virtual NAT Function can share a single IP address on the physical network by
multiple private IP address of VPN Clients. There are two operation mode of
Virtual NAT: User-mode and Kernel-mode. In the user-mode operation, Virtual
NAT shares an IP address which is assigned on the host operating system.
Unlike user-mode, the kernel-mode operation attempts to find DHCP servers on
the physical network. If there are two or more physical networks, a DHCP
server will be sought automatically for each segments serially. If a DHCP
server found, and an IP address is acquired, the IP address will be used by
the Virtual NAT. In this case, an IP entry as a DHCP client will be registered
on the IP pool of the physical DHCP Server. The physical default gateway and
the DNS server will be used by the Virtual NAT in order to communicate with
hosts in Internet. In kernel-mode operation, a Virtual Hub has a virtual MAC
address which is operating on the physical Ethernet segment. In order to check
the connectivity to Internet, SoftEther VPN periodically sends DNS query
packet to resolve the IP address of host "www.yahoo.com" or "www.baidu.com" ,
and attempts to connect to the TCP port 80 of such a resulted IP address for
connectivity check.

2.9. Unattended Installation of Kernel-mode Components
When SoftEther VPN will detect a necessity to install the kernel-mode
components on Windows, a confirmation message will be appeared by Windows
system. In this occasion, SoftEther VPN software will switch to the Unattended
Installation mode in order to respond "Yes" to Windows. This is a solution to
prevent dead-locks when a remote-administration is performed from remote
place.

2.10. Windows Firewall
SoftEther VPN software will register itself as a safe-program. Such an entry
will be remain after the uninstallation. You can remove it manually from the
Control Panel of Windows.


3. Internet Services
3.1. Internet Services which are provided by SoftEther Corporation
SoftEther Corporation provides Dynamic DNS, NAT Traversal and VPN Azure server
services on the Internet. These services are free of charge. Customers can
access to the services by using SoftEther VPN software, via Internet. These
service will be planned to be available from Open-Source version of "SoftEther
VPN" which will be released in the future.

3.2. Sent Information and Privacy Protection
SoftEther VPN software may send an IP address, hostname, the version of VPN
software on the customer's computer to the cloud service operated by SoftEther
Corporation, in order to use the above services. These sending of information
are minimal necessary to use the services. No personal information will be
sent. SoftEther Corporation records log files of the cloud service servers for
90 days at least with the received information. Such logs will be used for
troubleshooting and other legitimate activities. SoftEther Corporation may
provide logs to a public servant of Japanese government who are belonging to
courts, police stations and the prosecutor's office, in order to comply such
authorities' order. (Every Japanese public servants are liable by law to keep
the information close.) Moreover, the IP addresses or other information will
be processed statistically and provided to the public, not to expose the each
concrete IP address, in order to release the release of research activities.

3.3. Communication Data via VPN Azure Service
Regardless of the above 3.2 rule, if the customer sends or receives VPN
packets using VPN Azure Cloud Service, the actual payloads will stored and
forwarded via the volatile memory of the servers for very short period. Such a
behavior is naturally needed to provide the "VPN relay service" . No payloads
will be recorded on "fixed" storages such as hard-drives. However, the
"Wiretapping for Criminals Procedures Act" (The 137th legislation ruled on
August 18, 1999 in Japan) requires telecommunication companies to allow the
Japanese government authority to conduct a wire-tapping on the line. VPN Azure
Servers which are physically placed on Japan are subjects of this law.

3.4. Comply to Japanese Telecommunication Laws
SoftEther Corporation complies with Japanese Telecommunication Laws as
necessary to provide online services via Internet.

3.5. Free and Academic Experiment Services
SoftEther provides Dynamic DNS, NAT Traversal and VPN Azure as academic
experiment services. Therefore, there services can be used for free of charge.
These services are not parts of "SoftEther VPN Software Products" . These
services are provided without any warranty. The services may be suspended or
discontinued by technical or operational matters. In such occasions, users
will not be able to use the services. A user have to understand such risks,
and to acknowledge that such risks are borne by a user-self. SoftEther will
never be liable to results or damages of use or unable-to-use of the service.
Even if the user has already paid the license-fee of the commercial version of
SoftEther VPN, such paid fees don't include any fees of these services.
Therefore, if the online services will stop or be discontinued, no refunds or
recoveries of damages will be provided by SoftEther Corporation.

3.6. DNS Proxy Cloud Servers
In some regions, when a user uses Internet, a DNS query sometimes broken or
lost when it is passing through the ISP line. If SoftEther VPN Server, Client
or Bridge detects a possibility that the accessing to the actual VPN server
might be unstable, then DNS queries will be also transferred to the DNS proxy
cloud servers which are operated by SoftEther Corporation. A DNS proxy cloud
server will respond DNS queries with answering correct a IP address.


4. General Cautions
4.1. Needs an Approval from Network Administrator
SoftEther VPN has powerful functions which don't require special settings by
network administrators. For example, you need not to ask the administrator to
configure the existing firewall in order to "open" a TCP/UDP port. Such
characteristic features are for the purpose to eliminate working times and
costs of network administrators, and avoid misconfiguration-risks around the
tasks to open specific exception ports on the firewall. However, any employees
belong to the company have to obtain an approval from the network
administrator before installs SoftEther VPN. If your network administrator
neglects to provide such an approval, you can consider to take an approval
from an upper authority. (For example, executive officer of the company.) If
you use SoftEther VPN without any approvals from the authority of your
company, you might have disadvantage. SoftEther Corporation will be never
liable for results or damages of using SoftEther VPN.

4.2. Observe Laws of Your Country
If your country's law prohibits the use of encryption, you have to disable the
encryption function of SoftEther VPN by yourself. Similarly, in some countries
or regions, some functions of SoftEther VPN might be prohibited to use by
laws. Other countries' laws are none of SoftEther Corporation's concern
because SoftEther Corporation is an enterprise which is located and registered
in Japan physically. For example, there might be a risk that a part of
SoftEther VPN conflicts an existing patent which is valid only on the specific
region. SoftEther Corporation has no interests in such specific region outside
Japan's territory. Therefore, if you want to use SoftEther VPN in regions
outside Japan, you have to be careful not to violate third-person's rights.
You have to verify the legitimacy of the use of SoftEther VPN in the specific
region before you actually use it in such region. By nature, there are almost
200 countries in the World, and each country's law is different each other. It
is practically impossible to verify every countries' laws and regulations and
make the software comply with all countries' laws in advance to release the
software. Therefore SoftEther Corporation has verified the legitimacy of
SoftEther VPN against the laws and regulations of only Japan. If a user uses
SoftEther VPN in a specific country, and damaged by public servants of the
government authority, SoftEther Corporation will never be liable to recover or
compensate such damages or criminal responsibilities.


5. VPN Gate Academic Experiment Project
(This chapter applies only on SoftEther VPN software package which contains
the extension plug-in for VPN Gate Academic Experiment Project.)
5.1. About VPN Gate Academic Experiment Project
VPN Gate Academic Experiment Project is an online service operated for just
the academic research purpose at the graduate school of University of Tsukuba,
Japan. The purpose of this research is to expend our knowledge about the
"Global Distributed Public VPN Relay Server" (GDPVRS) technology. For details,
please visit http://www.vpngate.net/.

5.2. About VPN Gate Service
SoftEther VPN Server and SoftEther VPN Client may contain "VPN Gate Service"
program. However, VPN Gate Service is disabled by default.
VPN Gate Service should be activated and enabled by the voluntary intention of
the owner of the computer which SoftEther VPN Server or SoftEther VPN Client
is installed on. After you activate VPN Gate Service, the computer will be
start to serve as a part of the Global Distributed Public VPN Relay Servers.
The IP address, hostname and related information of the computer will be sent
and registered to the directory server of VPN Gate Academic Experiment
Project, and they will be published and disclosed to the public. This
mechanism will allow any VPN Gate Client software's user to connect to the VPN
Gate Service running on your computer. While the VPN session between a VPN
Gate Client and your VPN Gate Service is established, the VPN Gate Client's
user can send/receive any IP packets towards the Internet via the VPN Gate
Service. The global IP address of the VPN Gate Service's hosing computer will
be used as the source IP address of such communications which a VPN Gate
Client initiates.
VPN Gate Service will send some information to the VPN Gate Academic
Experiment Service Directory Server. The information includes the operator's
information which described in section 5.5, logging settings, uptime,
operating system version, type of protocol, port numbers, quality information,
statistical information, VPN Gate clients' log history data (includes dates,
IP addresses, version numbers and IDs) and the version of the software. These
information will be exposed on the directory. VPN Gate Service also receives a
key for encoding which is described on the chapter 5.9 from the directory
server.

5.3. Details of VPN Gate Service's Behavior
If you enable VPN Gate Service manually, which is disabled by default, the
"VPNGATE" Virtual Hub will be created on the SoftEther VPN Server. If you are
using SoftEther VPN Client and attempt to active VPN Gate Service on it, an
equivalent program to SoftEther VPN Server will be invoked on the same process
of SoftEther VPN Client, and the "VPNGATE" Virtual Hub will be created. The
"VPNGATE" Virtual Hub contains a user named "VPN" by default which permits
anyone on the Internet to make a VPN connection to the Virtual Hub. Once a VPN
Client connects to the "VPNGATE" Virtual Hub, any communication between the
user and the Internet will pass through the Virtual Hub, and
transmitted/received using the physical network interface on the computer
which SoftEther VPN Server (or SoftEther VPN Client) is running on. This will
cause the result that a destination host specified by the VPN Client will
identify that the source of the communication has initiated from the VPN Gate
Service's hosting computer's IP address. However, for safety, any packets
which destinations are within 192.168.0.0/255.255.0.0, 172.16.0.0/255.240.0.0
or 10.0.0.0/255.0.0.0 will be blocked by the "VPNGATE" Virtual Hub in order to
protect your local network. Therefore, if you run VPN Gate Service on your
corporate network or private network, it is safe because anonymous VPN Client
users will not be permitted to access such private networks. VPN Gate Service
also serves as relay for accessing to the VPN Gate Directory Server.
In order to make VPN Gate Service familiar with firewalls and NATs, it opens
an UDP port by using the NAT Traversal function which is described on the
section 1.2. It also opens and listens on some TCP ports, and some TCP and UDP
ports will be specified as the target port of Universal Plug and Play (UPnP)
Port Transfer entries which are requested to your local routers. UPnP request
packets will be sent periodically. Some routers keep such an opened TCP/UDP
port permanently on the device. If you wish to close them, do it manually.
VPN Gate Service also provides the mirror-site function for www.vpngate.net.
This is a mechanism that a copy of the latest contents from www.vpngate.net
will be hosted by the mirror-site tiny HTTP server which is running on the VPN
Gate Service program. It will register itself on the mirror-sites list in
www.vpngate.net. However, it never relays any other communications which are
not towards www.vpngate.net.

5.4. Communication between Internet via VPN Gate Service
VPN Gate Service provides a routing between users and the Internet, by using
the Virtual NAT Function which is described on the section 2.8. VPN Gate
Service sends polling Ping packets to the server which is located on
University of Tsukuba, and the Google Public DNS Server which is identified as
8.8.8.8, in order to check the latest quality of your Internet line. VPN Gate
Service also sends and receives a lot of random packets to/from the Speed Test
Server on University of Tsukuba. These quality data will be reported to VPN
Gate Directory Server, automatically and periodically. The result will be
saved and disclosed to the public. These periodical polling communication are
adjusted not to occupy the Internet line, however in some circumstances they
might occupy the line.

5.5. Operator's Information of VPN Gate Service
If you activate VPN Gate Service on your computer, the computer will be a part
of the Global Distributed Public VPN Relay Servers. Therefore, the Operator's
administrative information of your VPN Gate Service should be reported and
registered on the VPN Gate Service Directory. Operator's information contains
the name of the operator and the abuse-reporting contact e-mail address. These
information can be inputted on the screen if the VPN Gate configuration.
Inputted information will be transmitted to the VPN Gate Directory Server,
stored and disclosed to the public. So you have to be careful to input
information. By the way, until you specify something as the operator's
information, the computer's hostname will be used automatically as the field
of the name of the operator, by appending the "'s owner" string after the
hostname.

5.6. Observe Laws to Operate VPN Gate Service
In some countries or regions, a user who is planning to activate and operate
VPN Gate Service, he are mandated to obtain a license or register a service
from/to the government. If your region has such a regulation, you must fulfill
mandated process before activating VPN Gate Service in advance. Neither the
developers nor operators of the VPN Gate Academic Experiment Project will be
liable for legal/criminal responsibilities or damages which are occurred from
failure to comply your local laws.

5.7. Protect Privacy of Communication
Most of countries have a law which requires communication service's operators,
including VPN Gate Service operators, to protect the privacy of communication
of third-persons. When you operate VPN Gate Service, you must always protect
user's privacy.

5.8. Packet Logs
The packet logging function is implemented on VPN Gate Service. It records
essential headers of major TCP/IP packets which are transmitted via the
Virtual Hub. This function will be helpful to investigate the "original IP
address" of the initiator of communication who was a connected user of your
VPN Gate Service, by checking the packet logs and the connection logs. The
packet logs are recorded only for such legitimate investigates purpose. Do not
peek nor leak packet logs except the rightful purpose. Such act will be
violate the section 5.7.

5.9. Packet Logs Automatic Archiving and Encoding Function
The VPN Gate Academic Experiment Service is operated and running under the
Japanese constitution and laws. The Japanese constitution laws demand strictly
protection over the privacy of communication. Because this service is under
Japanese rules, the program of VPN Gate Service implements this "Automatic Log
File Encoding" protection mechanism, and enabled by default.
The VPN Gate Service is currently configured to encode packet log files which
has passed two or more weeks automatically, by default. In order to protect
privacy of communication, if a packet log file is once encoded, even the
administrator of the local computer cannot censor the packet log file. This
mechanism protects privacy of end-users of VPN Gate Service.
You can change the VPN Gate Service setting to disable this automatic encoding
function. Then packet log files will never be encoded even after two weeks
passed. In such a configuration, all packet logs will remain as plain-text on
the disk. Therefore you have to take care not to violate user's privacy.
If you are liable to decode an encoded packet log files (for example: a VPN
Gate Service's user illegally abused your VPN Gate Service and you have to
decode the packet logs in order to comply the laws), contact the administrator
of the VPN Gate Academic Experiment Service at Graduate School of University
of Tsukuba, Japan. You can find the contact address at
http://www.vpngate.net/. The administrator of VPN Gate Service will respond to
decode the packet logs if there is an appropriate and legal request from court
or other judicial authorities, according to laws.

5.10. Caution if You Operate VPN Gate Service in the Japan's Territories
When a user operates VPN Gate Service in the Japan's territories, such an act
may be regulated under the Japanese Telecommunication Laws if the operation is
a subject to the law. However, in such a circumstance, according to the
"Japanese Telecommunication Business Compete Manual [supplemental version]" ,
non- profitable operations of communications are not identified as a
"telecommunication business" . So usual operators of VPN Gate Service are not
subjects to "telecommunication business operators" , and not be mandated to
register to the government. Even so, legalities to protect the privacy of
communication still imposed. As a conclusion, if you operate VPN Gate Service
in the Japan's Territories, you must not leak the secrets of communications
which are transmitted via your operating VPN Gate Service.

5.11. VPN Gate Client
If SoftEther VPN Client contains the VPN Gate Client plug-in, you can use it
to obtain the list of current operating VPN Gate Service servers in the
Internet, and make a VPN connection to a specific server on the list.
VPN Gate Client always keeps the latest list of the VPN Gate Services
periodically. Be careful if you are using a pay-per-use Internet line.
When you start the VPN Gate Client software, the screen which asks you
activate or not VPN Gate Service will be appeared. For details of VPN Gate
Service, read the above sections.

5.12. Caution before Joining or Exploiting VPN Gate Academic Experiment
Project
The VPN Gate Academic Experiment Service is operated as a research project at
the graduate school on University of Tsukuba, Japan. The service is governed
under the Japanese laws. Other countries' laws are none of our concerns nor
responsibilities.
By nature, there are almost 200 countries in the World, with different laws.
It is impossible to verify every countries' laws and regulations and make the
software comply with all countries' laws in advance to release the software.
If a user uses VPN Gate service in a specific country, and damaged by public
servants of the authority, the developer of either the service or software
will never be liable to recover or compensate such damages or criminal
responsibilities.
By using this software and service, the user must observe all concerned laws
and rules with user's own responsibility. The user will be completely liable
to any damages and responsibilities which are results of using this software
and service, regardless of either inside or outside of Japan's territory.
If you don't agree nor understand the above warnings, do not use any of VPN
Gate Academic Experiment Service functions.
VPN Gate is a research project for just academic purpose only. VPN Gate was
developed as a plug-in for SoftEther VPN and UT-VPN. However, all parts of VPN
Gate were developed on this research project at University of Tsukuba. Any
parts of VPN Gate are not developed by SoftEther Corporation. The VPN Gate
Research Project is not a subject to be led, operated, promoted nor guaranteed
by SoftEther Corporation.


